reprex v1.0.0 (#496)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/reprex-1-0-0/index.Rmd

  author: Eric Molina

# one of: "deep-dive", "learn", "package", "programming", or "other"
categories: [package] 
tags: [reprex,tidyverse]
---

We're exhilarated to announce the release of reprex 1.0.0 ([reprex.tidyverse.org](https://reprex.tidyverse.org)).
reprex is a package that helps you prepare **REPR**oducible **EX**amples to share in places where people talk about code, e.g., on GitHub, on Stack Overflow, and in Slack or email messages.

You can install the current version of reprex from CRAN with[^1]:

[^1]: Another way you might get reprex is by installing the tidyverse meta-package.
    reprex is one of the packages installed by `install.packages("tidyverse")`, however it is **not** among the core packages attached by `library(tidyverse)`.

```{r, eval = FALSE}
install.packages("reprex")
```

It turns out we've never blogged about reprex here on [tidyverse.org](https://www.tidyverse.org), so we start with a general overview for newcomers, then close with a summary of recent changes of interest to existing users.

You can see a full list of changes in the [release notes](https://reprex.tidyverse.org/news/index.html#reprex-1-0-0-2021-01-27).

## Why reprex exists

> reprex is a convenience package that combines the power of R Markdown with conventional wisdom about what makes a good reproducible example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reprex is a convenience package that combines the power of RMarkdown with conventional wisdom about what makes a good reproducible example.
```

Author: I was following what I see here: https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com. I did contemplate space vs no space.

-   Code that the reader **doesn't necessarily have to run**
-   Code that the reader **can easily run**

Someone new to R might be puzzled by this code and want to discuss it:

```{r}
x <- factor("Hello, ")
y <- factor("world!")
x
y
c(x, y)
```

You, as a reader, just benefited from a few things:

1.  The code was actually executed by the R interpreter, because this post is generated from an `.Rmd` document.
    I am probably not wasting your time with fictional or incomplete code.

2.  You got to see the actual result without firing up R yourself and executing this code locally.
    Many R veterans will instantly recognize what's going on and be able to provide some useful explanation at this point.

3.  If you do want to execute the code yourself, you can easily copy the entire chunk, paste it into R, and press enter[^2].
    Compare that with the fussy edits you'd have to make with this copy/paste from the R Console:

    ``` r
    > x <- factor("Hello, ")
    > y <- factor("world!")
    > x
    [1] Hello, 
    Levels: Hello, 
    > y
    [1] world!
    Levels: world!
    > c(x, y)
    [1] 1 1
    ```

    You need to remove the `>` prompts and delete all output.

>     And don't get me started on the problem of screenshots.

Reviewer: Let alone the problem of photos of screens!

Reviewer: Oh I see you mention that below

Author: Saving the best for last! 📸

Slack's markup is a frustrating variant of the Markdown we use elsewhere and it's important to remove the `r` language identifier from the opening code fence.
We also simplify image links and, by default, suppress the ad.
Note that `venue = "slack"` or `reprex_slack()` work best for people who opt-out of the WYSIWYG message editor[^3].
While working on this, I appreciated for the first time that the default behaviour for figures (uploading to [imgur.com](https://imgur.com) and auto-linking) actually works pretty well for Slack messages.
Who knew?
`r emo::ji("shrug")`
This is also a good time to remind everyone that `venue = "r"` or `reprex_r()` are great ways to create larger Slack code snippets.
Before you finish by clicking "Create snippet", select `R` from the "Type" dropdown to get nice syntax highlighting.

[^3]: You can disable the WYSIWYG Slack message interface in **Preferences \> Advanced**.
    Select the **Format messages with markup setting**.
    The [Slack section of The Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/tools/slack/) is helpful for figuring out which subsets of Markdown are supported in different parts of Slack.

> Stack Overflow now supports fenced code blocks, which means that the `"so"` venue is no longer necessary.

Reviewer: Maybe not worth mentioning in the blog post?
